This project is meant to provide a solution to the common problem of network characterisation. Network characterisation can be defined as the palpable identity that a network has,
which entails a solid idea of which protocols are the most common, as well as which TCP services and ports are the most used. Overall network health, with metrics for Quality of Service to measure traffic throughput, jitter, latency and delay can also be part of the understanding within the framework of network characterisation, in the same vein that security characteristics can also be part of this ensemble. What type of traffic is most prevalent in a network can also play a role in its characterisation: this may include high speed streaming sessions, download traffic, instant message exchanges, VoIP, email, regular https sessions, file transfer etc. The type of use that a network has contributes greatly to the very definition of its characterisation. 

The aim of this project is to provide a means of bringing to network administrators a clear picture of the network under their care. The present solution looks into the information
available at the packet level to furnish all sorts of answers to common network administrators' questions. The solution hereby presented works with minimal input on the part of the user, relying on a carefully crafted pipeline structure which processes a PCAP file, abstracting its useful information according to the most relevant features known to answer most of the network administrators' questions  and, through a series of aggregation and sorting operations, extracts the most relevant flows from the PCAP file, which in turn are fed to a Large Language Model that interprets this input, displaying to the end user a concise report of the analysed data, thus reflecting the main aspects of the network that is source of the pcap file.

The provided solution consists of an ongoing effort, with more changes and improvements on the way. This initiative aims at not only providing a useful tool for network administrataors and operators to quickly have a solid pciture of their network, but also to add to the growing body of scientific contributions in the area of computer network and infrastructure overall. 
